# linux-dev-setup
setup development environment with linux

I have been using windows since forever. I mean when I started using PCs, Windows was the first Operating System that I interated with. And since then I kept using it without even thinking about replacing it with any other OS. Maybe becuase I wasn't aware of any other operating system or maybe I was lazy enough to look for a different OS. Or maybe I didn't need to switch because Windows offers a very user-friendly interface, you can play most of the games, install third-party apps in easy way and basically it was satisfying my needs at that time.

So why did I think about changing Windows, 7 years back when I considered about my Software Engineering carrier, I started using development tools and over the years I shipped applications for production environment. I relazied the importance development environment. Because applications work fine in Dev environment and they dont in Production. Thats the reason the concept of containerization was introduced and it is so well accepted all arount the world. It keeps the environment same as your dev envrironment.You ship our code to production without any problem.

But It took me 7 years to switch? Why??. Well I am a Fullstack developer. I also design user interfaces and user experiences and I didn't wanted to loose the Adobe Ecocsytem. Another reason, Microsoft launched WSL with windows 10 which was very exciting and promising for me. because I was able to use linux without loosing microsoft's user-friendly interface and adobe ecosystem that I was used to. But turned out after using wsl1, it was very slow and major problem was some incompatibility between the operating systems I mean the file permission issues and (that could be solve via some tweeks but that wasn't so satisfying for me). I gave a try to wsl2, but it was more terrible for me. Though it solved the performance issues, but there were some serious issues with the mounted drives (other then c: which holds OS mostly). Webpack wasn't working, Even VScode had to poll every second to updates the files. Well I gave up on it beacuse I realized that I am at a point where I am loosing my productivity by wasting my time in fixing WSL and Windows compatibility. Also, I found Figma which is  web based UI/UX tool and is a good replacement of Adobe. 

Lets jump right into the steps.
